If you click play on this video, then
you probably have an interview coming
up. My guess is that you feel good about
how to prepare for coding interviews,
but system design makes you a little bit
nervous. I'm Evan. I'm a former Meta
Staff engineer and I've conducted many
hundreds of interviews. And I'm now the
co-founder of Hello Interview. Hello
Interview is a platform that helps
candidates just like you prepare for
their upcoming interviews. In this role,
I've now worked with hundreds of
thousands of candidates. And through
that, I've gained a really good
understanding of what works and what
doesn't. And so I know that system
design can feel incredibly overwhelming,
but it doesn't have to be. The key, just
like with leak code for coding prep, is
to work backwards from common problems.
I'm going to tell you exactly which
problems I would focus on and in what
order a little bit later on in this
video. But before diving into specific
questions, you would need a basic
foundation. And so the first thing I
would do is I would understand what the
hell a system design interview actually
is. Then I would go ahead and refresh on
my fundamentals. These are going to be
concepts that you likely learned back in
college and just need a touch up. From
here, I'd get familiar with the basic
components that are present in in almost
every single system design. And then we
can finally start to work backwards from
those common problems so that we can
build a deeper understanding. Now,
you'll probably note this strategy
mirrors how you're already preparing for
coding interviews, identifying patterns
across problems rather than memorizing
random solutions. Let me show you what I
mean. So, first off, what is a system
design interview? Well, a system design
interview evaluates your ability to
architect complex, scalable systems that
solve real world problems. Sounds like
something out of a textbook. What is it
really? You come to a whiteboard. The
interviewer asks you to design a system,
something like Ticket Master or Uber,
and you draw boxes explaining at a high
level what services and interactions are
necessary to pull off designing the
system. You're not writing code. It's
typically just boxes and arrows. Now,
this diagram shows that there are a few
types of heavily overlapping design
interviews. In this video, we're talking
about by far the most common, which are
product and infraesign problems. Now, a
product problem, this is when you're
designing an app or a website that you
use every day. Something like Dropbox or
Uber, Netflix, all these things that
that you know well. Infra, on the other
hand, infrastructure design problems,
these are non-userfacing systems. So
components like designing a rate
limiter, maybe designing a message cue,
or even data processing pipelines,
things like an adclick aggregator. But
in general, when you have a system
design interview, it's likely going to
come out of one of these two buckets.
Either product design or infrastructure
design. When you get into an interview,
it's really, really, really important
that you follow a framework. This keeps
you focused and it makes sure that
you're on time. And so as you prepare,
you'll want to choose a framework that
works really well for you. I strongly
recommend that you choose this framework
here. What you're going to do when the
interview starts and you're asked to
design a system like design ticket
master is you're going to start by
outlining the requirements of the
system. Now, this includes both the
functional requirements and the
non-functional requirements. Functional
requirements are just the features of
the system like a user should be able to
book a ticket and a non-functional
requirement is the quality of the system
like booking tickets should be low
latency, right? and or the system should
be able to scale to however many number
of users. This ensures upfront that you
and your interviewer agree on what
you're going to be designing. Next, you
want to outline the core entities of the
system. These typically map directly to
the tables in your database. These are
just the entities that your system will
persist and that your API will exchange.
So, think like a user, an event, a
ticket. Simple as that.
Then you're going to outline the basic
APIs needed to meet your functional
requirements. Nine times out of 10,
these are probably going to be REST
endpoints, but there might be unique
cases where GraphQL or something else
makes more sense. But from here, you
then get into the fun stuff. You get to
head over to that whiteboard and you're
going to start drawing boxes and arrows
starting with a really simple highle
design where the goal of the highle
design is to meet the functional
requirements of your system. So, a
really simple, not complex design that
can allow users to say book a
ticket. From here, you're going to get
deep and this is where you're going to
enhance that initial highle design via
deep dives where the goal of the deep
dives are to satisfy your non-functional
requirements. So, now that I can book a
ticket, how do I make sure that booking
it is low latency? How do I make sure
that it's strongly consistent? How do I
make sure that it can scale to those
scale numbers that you might have agreed
upon with your interviewer? Now, the
last step in understanding what a system
design interview is is understanding how
your interviewer is going to be
evaluating you. Now, every company is
slightly different, of course, but they
all evaluate you on some permutation of
the following. One, your problem solving
skills. So, this is most importantly
your ability to recognize and prioritize
the core challenges of the system. So if
you're designing ticket master, you're
focused on the booking flow. You're not
focused on authentication, for example.
Next is your solution design. This is
your highle design from that framework
uh that we showed just a moment ago. Did
you weigh trade-offs and did you arrive
at something that meets those functional
requirements? Next is your technical
excellence. And this is where you're
going to show off in your deep dives
that you have technical expertise in
some, not all, but in some areas of the
system. Can you go deep? Talk about
specific technologies. Talk about
specific areas where things could break
all of this. And then lastly, of course,
is your communication skills. Can you
clearly explain complex technical
concepts? You'll be talking for 35
minutes to an hour during the system
design interview. You need to be clear
and competent in doing so.
Next up, you're going to want to make
sure that you have at least a basic
foundational understanding of some of
the fundamentals. And so, people are
going to provide these long overwhelming
lists. You've probably seen them online,
of all these things that you need to
know. But in reality, knowing these six
concepts here are going to get you 90
plus% of the way there. And so, this is
where I would focus my time. First up is
storage fundamentals. When it comes to
storage, you should be able to discuss
various data storage models and the
appropriate use cases. And so be
prepared to explain things like how data
is organized in a relational database
where you have normalized tables with
relationships versus document stores
where you have nested JSON-like
structures like this. And then also key
value stores where you have a simple
lookup mechanism based on a key. Your
interviewer is also going to expect that
you understand acid properties uh for
transactional systems in particular and
that you're able to compare and contrast
these with base principles for
distributed
databases. You should be able to
articulate when each storage paradigm
makes sense based on access patterns and
the given consistency requirements of
your system which you probably agreed
upon in your non-functional
requirements. Now, next up when it comes
to the fundamentals is scalability. And
scalability is just the concept of how
do we scale our system? so that we can
support more users and more requests.
And scalability almost always comes up
in a system design interview. And so
when you're talking about scaling
compute, when you're scaling your
servers, you should know about vertical
scaling, beefier machines, more CPU,
more RAM, and also horizontal scaling.
Let's just add more machines to be able
to service these incoming requests. You
should also understand how to scale
storage. And so this is techniques like
partitioning and sharding, splitting
data instead of on a single database
across multiple database instances. Um
as well as how to distribute data
efficiently across these different
instances like the famous consistent
hashing algorithm. We actually have a
video on the channel that goes into
detail on consistent hashing. So if
that's new to you, check that one out.
Okay, so next up is networking. Uh, when
it comes to networking, you probably
remember learning about these OS OSI
layers, excuse me, in college. And I
have good news for you. When it comes to
your interviews, you only really need to
know three of them. The application
layer, transport layer, and network
layer. And so, the application layer is
going to be the most important for your
interviews. And this is where you are
going to want to know things like API
design, REST versus GraphQL versus gRPC,
which makes sense when. And you'll also
want to understand real-time
communication via websockets or server
sent events. This is what you'll use in
the case of designing for example a chat
app. And then second is the transport
layer. And so for infra style interviews
in particular, knowing about TCP versus
UDP for example and the request life
cycle is going to be really important.
And then lastly, when it comes to the
network layer, you should have some
basic understanding at least of load
balancing and maybe understand firewalls
or access control lists, but unless it's
a a specific type of interview, this is
maybe less likely to come up. Now, just
like with consistent hashing, we have a
really excellent detailed video on all
thing networking essentials. And so, if
you don't have this already down, that's
the first thing I would do. Head over to
that video and check it out. Fourth is
latency, throughput, and performance.
And so there's a decent chance that
you're going to be tasked with
optimizing performance somewhere in your
interview. And so you should be able to
recall approximate latency numbers for
common operations, things like memory
access, disk reads, or network calls.
And then when discussing your
requirements in the beginning of the
interview, you're going to want to
demonstrate your ability to understand
some throughput limitations and maybe
perform some basic capacity planning
estimations. And so you should be
prepared to identify also performance
bottlenecks, maybe even proposing
solutions in your distributed
architecture. For example, adding a
cache to lower latency. And so I've
linked down below an article that should
cover everything that you need to know
about performance optimizations as well.
Second to last, we have fault tolerance
and redundancy. And so this is
relatively basic. You should be able to
recognize and communicate to your
interviewer that failures are inevitable
in distributed systems. And so you
should be ready to discuss things like
replication strategies and failure
detection mechanisms. And your design
should incorporate redundancy at the
appropriate levels, servers, racks,
maybe data centers, so that you can
recover from these failures gracefully.
Last up is cap theorem. You're going to
talk about cap theorem earlier in your
interview, oftent times in the
non-functional requirements, and you're
going to want to make sure that your
system upholds whatever decision you
make in as it pertains to cap theum. And
so Capum of course is consistency,
availability, and partition tolerance.
Your system can only have two of the
three. Partition tolerance is a
guarantee. And so your only decision is
should my system prioritize availability
or consistency? And now if this is
foreign to you, you don't know what I'm
talking about, don't stress it. We have
a really detailed video on Cap theorem
as well. I think it's less than 10
minutes long. Should go quick. And
that's also linked below.
And then we have our database. And so
this is where your data lives when the
power goes off. You have options here.
You've got a traditional database like
Postgress, which is going to keep
everything organized in these strict
little tables with with uh clear and
defined rules. You also have maybe
relatively newer options like MongoDB.
This is going to store information more
in documents and JSON blobs. And then
you have other things like Reddus, which
is going to store simple key value pairs
that you can look up really quickly.
Now, importantly, and I see this mistake
a lot, don't get caught up in the old
SQL versus NoSQL debate. Most modern
databases can scale well and can
maintain data integrity. And so, the
real question isn't SQL versus NoSQL.
It's how does your app need to read and
write data? And then you should choose
the option that makes those common
operations fast and simple for your use
case. For your cache, you can think of
this like your systems short-term
memory. And so caches, Reddus being a
popular example, they store frequently
accessed data so that you don't have to
keep hitting your database. Now, they're
way faster um but they do come with
their own challenges mainly around
keeping data fresh. And so you need to
decide, for example, how long
information stays valid. When do you
kick it out of the cache? The main thing
to remember when you're introducing
caches is that they're going to make
your system lightning fast for repeated
requests, but managing them adds some
additional complexity to your design
that you're going to want to be aware
of. Message cues are how different parts
of your system can talk to each other
without having to wait around. And so
instead of making direct calls, one
service can drop a message into a queue.
Popular ones are like Kafka, Rabbit MQ,
maybe SQS, and then another service can
pick it up and process it when it's
ready. And so you can think of this like
texting instead of calling. You don't
need both sides available at the same
time. It can happen asynchronously. Now,
this helps your system handle traffic
spikes and it keeps things running,
particularly if one service were to
crash, for example. But the main
challenge is making sure that messages
actually get delivered in the first
place. And so sometimes they get
delivered once, sometimes potentially
they get delivered multiple times. And
you're going to need strategies in order
to handle this. You can think of a load
balancer as the traffic control for your
system. And so load balancers take
incoming requests and they direct them
to different servers so that no single
machine gets overwhelmed. So this server
box here typically will horizontally
scale it. Meaning we'll need more than
just one computer. We'll need multiple
servers. And then the load balancer is
going to be determining when a new
request comes in which of those servers
it should route that request to. That
simple. Your database is designed for
organized structured data like user
accounts or product information. It's
not designed for storing large files,
things like images or videos. And so
trying to cram those things into your
database is like forcing a square peg
into a round hole. It's going to bloat
your database and it's going to slow
down all of your queries and make
backups a nightmare. And so that's why
services like blob storage services, S3
being a popular example, exist. They're
specifically built to handle these types
of unstructured data. This is typically
media, large text files, etc. and they
can host them at a much cheaper cost.
And so always keep your structured data
in your database and you keep your
unstructured data in your blog storage.
Your CDN or your content delivery
network um it's just a cache. The CDN
confuses a lot of people, but it's just
a cache. Uh and it serves as your global
distribution system. And so you can
place your content closer to users
around the world. So popular CDNs are
like Cloudfare uh is is one and they can
store the copies of the images and the
videos and other static files oftent
times that you're hosting in your blob
storage but they're going to store them
closer to the user and so it's going to
make it a lot faster for users to
download these resources because they
don't have to go all the way to for
example America if they're in India they
can just pull in these images and files
directly from a CDN server in their
native country.
Okay, finally the most important part.
So, if you're thinking that everything
that I just talked about was not foreign
to you, then you are already ready to
start working through the problems. Even
if you weren't an expert on everything
that we just described for anything that
was maybe less clear, I've added a bunch
of links below as you know, and you can
go either watch the videos or read the
written resources in order to help close
that gap for you. But in reality, most
of your learning is going to come from
working through core problems. And so I
recommend that you work through these
problems that you see on the screen here
in this order, starting with Bitly, then
Dropbox, Ticket Master, and then all the
way around until you end with Post
Search. There's just 10 problems here,
and they cover the overwhelming majority
of concepts that you're going to see in
a system design interview. And so with
each with each one of these problems,
excuse me, you're going to be introduced
to techniques and patterns that are
going to continue to reappear in
problems later on in this list, which is
going to help reaffirm these concepts to
you. Now, Stephan and I have written
detailed breakdowns and recorded videos
for each of these 10 problems, as well
as over 15 others. And so, you have
something to guide you throughout this
journey. If for bitly and Dropbox and
maybe even Ticket Master, you can start
by just passively consuming the video. I
think that's reasonable. But after those
three, the key, and this is so so so so
important, the key is to try it
yourself. And so, open an online
whiteboard, start a timer, and work
through the problem. At the end, you're
going to know exactly where you were
confused. These are what we call your
known unknowns. And so, you can open up
Google, you can open up ChatGBT, and you
can start searching and filling in those
blanks that you have in your
understanding. And then, and only then,
should you fire up YouTube uh or open
the website and watch the video or read
the breakdown. And this is going to show
you then all of the unknown unknowns or
the things that you didn't even know you
were missing. And then rinse and repeat
the cycle through all 10 of these
questions. And I promise you that after
doing so, you are going to have a really
solid understanding of system design
concepts and feel really comfortable
going into your interviews. Now, if you
happen to be a Hello Premium user, then
we've made this iterative cycle really
easy for you and hopefully kind of fun.
So for each of these 25 problems, you
can open up what we call guided practice
and you can work through problems in
order in the delivery framework that we
just showed. And then in each, for
example, answering this deep dive
question, we're going to analyze your
whiteboard as well as whatever your text
response is and then give you inline
feedback to teach you concepts and help
you improve as you go. So try guided
practice. Ticket Master is actually free
to everybody, but for premium users,
this is probably even a better way to
handle that practice iteration than
opening up just a raw whiteboard
yourself. So, there you have it, folks.
That is how I would prepare for a system
design interview today. You have all the
links below. Go through them, especially
in the concepts that are less clear to
you, and make sure that you're
practicing. The only last thing that I
would add, of course, is that a system
design interview is also about
presentation. So make sure that you are
actually audibly practicing ideally with
somebody else. This could be friends,
colleagues, co-workers, peer mock
interviews. We at Hello Interview also
have professional mock interviews where
you can interview with an interviewer
from your target company. So for
example, an interviewer who's actively
an interviewer at Meta. Um, consider
that. But I hope this was useful to you.
Feel free to leave any comments,
questions. I'll try to get to those. And
I'll see you guys again soon. Good luck
with your interviews. Take care.